I learned to use humor to defuse other people’s insults. I always assumed that those “insults” came from a good place, deep down. The way I learned to see it, was that they actually did like me, and they were just testing me to see how I would respond. My close friends and I were always teasing one another. We made fun of one another all the time. We didn’t take it personally. 
If you just laugh things off and use self-deprecating humor – then it communicates to others that you are unattached to what they think of you. Their insults cease to have any power over you. You have to understand that it’s not really about you at all – and this is something you will hear me repeat time and time again. Human beings tend to attack the things in others that they don’t like about themselves. They tend to attack and ridicule personality characteristics in other people that are similar to their own personality characteristics – especially the ones that they are disconnected from, or not comfortable with expressing in themselves.  For example, if someone is very unhappy, they will attack and ridicule people they perceive as being happy. “Wipe that stupid smile off your face…” Take the higher ground and realize that the people who attack you are attacking you because you are comfortable expressing a part of yourself. They are uncomfortable with it in themselves, and they are disconnected from it in their own hearts. Basically they are jealous of your high level of comfort and acceptance of yourself.

Deep down, they want to be like you., 


Every time I need to accomplish something new in life, I think about the pain of failing, or procrastinating, or of simply not trying hard enough. I think about the pleasure of succeeding, and getting it done. I think about the awesome things I can experience if it gets done on time, and properly.

So what you need to do is to take your to-do list and match it up to your list of major life goals. Go through each item on the list and if it helps you achieve goal number one in the long run, mark it with the number one. Then do the same with goal number two, and then number three, until you’ve worked through all of them. Then you can schedule your time to work on the most important things that you need to do first. Anything that is marked with the number one takes priority, anything that’s not aligned to your goals is not as important. When you’re working on a task that aligns to your goal, it’s important to cut out any distractions that might take you out of the flow of work. Lengthy phone calls, for example, can completely throw you out of your groove, and it will take time to get back into the flow of it again. So cut that out, as far as possible.


Whether you’re an employee or an entrepreneur, your purpose at work is to add value. You’re either contributing value through a product or providing a service – this is what makes you worth employing. In order to reach your maximum earning potential, you need to make smart choices – ones that align to your natural talents, and your goals in life. You need to add as much value as you can. Just like the professional athlete, during your career trajectory you should always be looking for opportunities to grow, and develop your gifts, skills and talents. You have to develop your acquired skills in line with your natural talents. That also means that you want to work for someone who provides you with the right kind of opportunities to develop.

Instead of giving up hope on ever getting a good job, you need to act instead as if you have plenty of options. Instead of calling and begging for a job, instead of meekly asking for them to give you the time or the opportunity, you need to take a completely different approach.

Superstar employees communicate differently than the rookies who are begging for a job. Superstars are skeptical, in the sense that they don’t simply settle for the first or easiest option. They know their worth. They want to know what things are like at a company before they’re willing to send over their resume or come in for an interview. So that’s exactly the strategy I followed. When I got to speak to the VP or the person that was doing the hiring, I would position myself like a superstar employee. After leading the conversation, and getting them to tell me all about their company for five minutes I would say something like: “Great. It sounds like your company might be what I’m looking for. When is a good time for us to get together to discuss the details? What’s your schedule like?” There was never any hint of doubt or uncertainty on my part. I didn’t ask whether or not we could meet – I asked when we could meet. It’s the kind of question that requires someone to give you a definite answer. It’s not vague, and it’s not open-ended. I talk about the same principle in my first book, because it applies equally well to asking a woman out on a date, and in many other aspects of life too. The confident person, the one who is asking all the questions and leading the conversation is the one who is in charge of the negotiation.


Scarcity creates value. If the person doing the hiring feels that you’re in demand, and feels that other companies might snatch you up before he gets the chance, it’s going to play on his subconscious mind. It has the same emotional and psychological effect as a ‘limited time offer’ that you see used in many advertisements.

I would always insist on a salary review after 90 days, six months and a year. I was never antagonistic, but instead I showed that I was eager to work and to prove myself. Everything I said was infused with that same positive attitude. I never directly declined their offer, I was merely telling them what I expected, and what I wanted to earn. It shows confidence, and it shows that you value yourself, and believe in yourself. In essence, the right kind of message, the idea that you should always be carrying across is something like: “I will be busting my ass and doing a great job for you, so I want to be sure that I’m taking the right offer for me, and for my family.” If you approach the negotiation in this way, you might be surprised at the outcome. You could even end up getting more than what you were hoping to get at the start. While we’re on the subject of salary, here’s another important detail: If you’re looking to be employed by a startup, it’s usually a good idea to ask for shares in the company, right from the beginning of the negotiation. One of my best friends is a living testament to the wisdom of this. He left AOL with $40 million because he insisted on getting shares in the business, back when it was starting out, and in the early stages of negotiation. When the company wanted to employ him, he flatly refused to work there unless he got shares.